# Project scope

## Purpose of Software Project

The purpose of this project is to provide an internet based solution that allows users to give away unwanted food items to others. We aim to achieve this by making the human interaction part of the system as simple as possible without imposing restrictions on how complex the features could be. Because it is an internet-based solution, it can provide affordances that are unique to this type of medium, such as the ability to scale the layout of the program to different devices efficently. Due to the ubiquity of internet browsers, it makes it viable to reach a wide audience.

## Benefits

There are many benefits that this software project will provide, which are not limited to:

- The project will allow users to give away unwanted food items. Food is an abundance and, as mentioned in the introduction a lot of edible food is discarded. Our SaaS (Software as a Service) can help ensure that food can go to people who need it.

- The project will allow users (people above 18 years old) to advertise unwanted food items. Many people find it inconvenient to go out of their way in making sure that their surplus food can be put into good use.

- The project will help spread goodwill among users. Allowing users the opportunity to give away allows them to see first hand where their food is going, which helps in making them feel that they are helping out others.

- Reduce household spending bills. Due to the nature of this software, users will intuitively spend less on groceries.

## Project Boundaries
<!-- read through -->

For the moment we will not be producing a native mobile application from scratch, as our group collectively have little to zero experience in this particular environment, adding to the timespan needed to produced such a program. Additionally, the performance that an application written from scratch will provide as opposed to a web-container style app isn't enough to justify the program to be made.

## Product Vision

We intend the developed application to be used in the following manner listed below. Both characters (Alice and Bob) are used as placeholder names for any of the potential users for the developed solution.

- Alice has food items that she is willing to give away.
- Alice goes onto our web application.
- Alice registers an account, which will allow her to upload listings of their food item.
- Alice goes through the process or adding a listing
	- Alice inputs descriptions and other relevant information about her food item.
	- Alice is given the option to scan the item's barcode, or alternatively she can manually add barcode details to the item.
- Alice's food item is now listed on the web application.

- Another user, Bob, goes onto the web application, with the intention of finding food items to take home.
- Bob searches for an item they like.
- Bob finds Alice's food item listing.
- Bob requests the food item.
- Bob and Alice communiate with each other using the web application's messaging service.
- Both users agree to meet up and transfer food items.
- Both users rate each other's experience after they have met up.

## User Base

Our user base will consist of the following:

- Users short on food
- Users wishing to give away food
- Users wishing to find free food
- Users with an already full supply of groceries.
