# Risks, Assumptions, Constraints & Dependencies

## Project Risks

**Communication:**

- Breakdown in communication/arguments between team members. Someone should always be keeping track of how people are getting on with each other and their own work.

- Not enough regular communication with the client. There should be check-ups each week showing the client what has been done.

- Time wasted due to waiting for the client's approval on certain features. Make sure that while waiting, team members are occupied with something else i.e. allow for dynamic scheduling.

**Time Management/Scheduling:**

- Not allocating enough time to basic features of the system such as adding tables/input forms. They are simple in design, but can still take some time to implement.

- Not enough time allocated for testing, meaning the eventual program is buggy and unusable.

- Not planning ahead and trying to incorporate too many advanced deliverables in too limited of a time.

- A team member or multiple team members are unable to complete their allocated tasks due to outside personal circumstances or illness.

**Prioritisation**

- Putting focus on advanced deliverables before basic functionality of the system is finished. Basic deliverables should be done first so that if anything is unfinished it will be the advanced tasks, which are less important than basic functionality.

- Lack of focus on the mobile version of the site vs. desktop version. Both are equally important and should be worked on simultaneously.

## System Risks

**Security**

- The final site is hacked e.g. an SQL injection attack leading to release of users' personal information.

- The site is subject to a DDoS attack, leading to users being unable to access the site.

**Reliability/Usability**

- The system goes down regularly due to unreliable hosting or too many concurrent users overloading the server.

- The site is too confusing or difficult for users to learn, leading to them abandoning the system in favour of alternative services.

**Legal/Ethical**

- The site may be subject to legal action if users become ill or receive potentially fatal food poisoning from food which is out of date, or has not been properly labelled in terms of what kind of allergens are contained within it.

- The service may be used for illegal purposes, for example selling food items containing illegal narcotics.

## Assumptions

**Skills:**

- It is assumed that team members allocated to implementation are familiar/will be familiar with web languages such as PHP, HTML, CSS, and Javascript/Node.js

- It is assumed all team members are familiar with basic database design, as well as the implementation of databases using SQL.

**Availability:**

- It is assumed that there will always be a reasonable amount of team members available to work on the system at any point in the project time-frame, excluding holiday time, so that if a team member becomes unavailable for whatever reason then their tasks can be reallocated to another member.

- It is assumed that the client will be available to give feedback at all points in the project time-frame.

**Performance:**

- It is assumed that each team member will have completed all the work allocated to them before each deadline/project checkpoint.

- It is assumed that the client will give accurate and detailed feedback to any parts of the system that they are asked to comment on.

## Dependencies

1. The project requirements need to be fully completed and checked before any design work or implementation is started.

2. The requirements cannot be finalised until feedback and checking have been done by the client (In case any of the requirements are incorrect).

3. Implementation cannot be started on a particular section of the system until all design work has been completed for that section.

4. Testing cannot be completed until all implementation/extra features have been added to the system.

## System Constraints

- Only 3 hours a week have been allocated for group meetings, which must be shared with other projects such as the CEP and LSEPI presentation. This limits the amount of time that can be spent on collaborative design & evaluation.

- Accounts have to be limited to only personal accounts due to the need for face-to-face food collection. Anonymous or ‘guest’ accounts cannot be implemented as this could cause potential security/personal issues.

- Contact between team members as well as direct collaboration will be limited over both the winter and spring holiday periods due to separation as well as varying availability.

## Additional Open Issues

- **What are the exact attributes associated with each food item?**

These can be chosen by the developer depending on what they feel is appropriate.

- **For registration of users, does this feature have to be built into the system, or can it be outsourced via facebook/twitter?**

Preferably built into the system.

- **In general, how important is it that the site’s features are custom-designed vs. being outsourced?**

Generally, as much should be custom-designed from scratch as possible.
